{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20620\viewh13460\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ---\
permalink: /portfolio/\
title: \'93Portfolio\'94\
last_modified_at: 2020-12-23T06:56:38-05:30\
toc: true\
---\
\
## Biography\
\
I am an experimental physicist with a passion for lasers and applied optics. I am enthused towards research goals that challenge precision measurement using lasers.\
\
\
### Work experience\
\
| STO (R&D), Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, India | 2018 - present |\
| Postdoctoral fellow, Kansas State University, USA | 2015-18 |\
| Postdoctoral fellow, California Institute of Technology, LIGO laboratory, USA |2012-15 |\
| Research fellow, Institute for Laser Science, University of Electro-Communications, Japan | 2011-12 |\
\
### Education\
\
| PhD in Physics, University of Electro-communications, Japan | 2011 |\
| MSc in Physics, University of Hyderabad, India | 2007 |\
| BSc in Physics, Pondicherry University (BGCW), India | 2005 |\
\
### Professional society affiliations\
\
- LIGO Scientific Collaboration\'96 Member (2012 \'96 16, 2019 \'96 present)\
- LIGO-India Scientific Collaboration - Member (2019 \'96 present).\
- Indian Initiative in Gravitational wave Observations \'96 Member (2011 \'96 19).\
\
#### Awards and Scholarships\
\
 - Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics awarded for contribution towards the detection of gravitational waves given by the Breakthrough prize foundation (2016). \
 -  Monbukagakusho (MEXT) scholarship awarded by Japanese government to foreign nationals to support higher education, selected on the recommendation of Japanese university (2007 - 11). \
 - Prof. M. Shakuntala Memorial Medal awarded to woman topper in MSc., Physics at University of Hyderabad, India (2007). \
 - Post Graduate Merit Scholarship awarded by UGC, India, for university rank holders to support higher education (2005 - 2007). \
 - University first ranker in BSc Physics awarded by Pondicherry University (2005). \
\
#### Research Interests\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Optical amplifiers and resonators, optomechanics (optical design of instruments), precision measurement and advanced sensing, laser interferometry for gravitational wave detectors, cavity length sensing and control, laser frequency and intensity stabilization, high power solid-state and fiber lasers, mid-IR laser sources, laser frequency metrology, wavelength conversion and filtering, beam shaping and mode selection in lasers.}